---
layout: post
title: "c7-values"
date: 2015-01-17 07:55:17 -0600
comments: true
categories: 
---
compassion, empathy, honesty, leadership, integrity

<!--more-->

I've been given guidelines on how to write this post.  I was told to choose the values that have been present when I've been  happiest in my life. The importance of these values is immeasurable to me.  

The unfortunate truth of the matter is, I haven't spent a whole lot of time being happy.  I've dealt with some pretty terrible depression and I've fallen short on these values more often than I care to admit.  I constantly feel like I'm falling short, letting my ego drive my actions, letting all the people around me down; life is hard and I suck at it sometimes.  

Compassion and positive leadership have always helped.  That's why I was drawn to this program, but sometimes I don't know if I deserve to be here.  I feel like an impostor.  I'm totally insecure and every day it's a struggle not to fall into negativity and old habits.  I think about giving up sometimes but I won't let myself.

We lost a cohort-mate last week.  He was a bright guy and I worry he might have lost control because of me.  He and I probably have  more in common than anyone knows, and watching someone else struggle like that in the midst of this program; well, I'm not dealing with it well.  I tried so hard to get this person to work with me because I saw something in him that I see in myself.  I feel like I pushed too hard to make this person open up and be positive and he just wasn't ready.  Reflecting on it, I can't help but see the way in which my ego drove my behavior and probably made me seem self-righteous.  We were asked to be vulnerable in this setting, and I recognize now that he completely laid himself bare.  I respect this more than you can know. 

A huge reason why I chose DBC is because I want to learn how better to handle my emotions in tough situations like this.  Who's to say he wasn't trying to do the same?  I hope the next time I encounter someone in a similar situation I can give them the space they need.  Most of all I'm sorry I couldn't show more compassion.  I fell short on this one and it's going to take me awhile to get over it.  At this point, I just have to keep my head down and move on.  I know that much. 

I'm happy to have you all in my life.  I've already learned so much from you guys and I truly hope I can reciprocate and pass on what little wisdom I have in the future.  

I want to build beautiful and meaningful things, but beautiful, meaningful, relationships are what's most important.  That's the real lesson.  We lost a cohort-mate last week.  It seems like it should be a priority that we not lose another.  We all have our own reasons for choosing DBC and we should all feel safe and supported in our decisions.  I know if I lost this opportunity, I would be devastated. 

>"What passes for hip cynical transcendence of sentiment is really some kind of fear of being really human, since to be really 
>human [...] is probably to be unavoidably sentimental and naïve and goo-prone and generally pathetic.” -David Foster Wallace




