---
layout: post
title: "c4-tech-issues"
date: 2015-01-09 16:59:06 -0600
comments: true
categories:
---

This is a blog post about male privilege in the tech world today.  I'll start with a disclaimer about some of the language used in this blog post then I'll move on to some statistics so we have a better grasp on the scope of this problem we're facing.

<!--more-->

Disclaimer: I will be using words like patriarchy, sexism, and misogyny at differnt points throughout this blog post.  I'm very careful about how I use these words and I think it's important that anyone else who would like to be a part of this conversation is equally thoughtful.  These words are not synonyms even though many times they are used as such.  Sexism, misogyny, patriarchy, and feminism are not words that should be thrown around lightly and they are NOT INTERCHANGEABLE.  Misogyny is defined as a hatred toward women and I will NEVER use that word when what I'm actually talking about is male privilege or sexism.  This might seem nitpicky or semantic, but I assure you it is not.  In order to get everyone on board and truly affect change we need to understand these terms completely.  You should stop reading now and look all of those words up in the dictionary, if you haven't already done so.  If you are at all unsure of what these words mean or how they should be used, I strongly encourage you to study them a little more deeply.  As a male feminist in 2014 I will only be taken seriously if I've done my homework and learned to talk about these things accurately.  I expect the same respect from anyone else wishing to engage in this conversation, whether they're women or men.

Alright, now that that's out of the way, let's jump into some stats.  According to Tech Republic, in 2013, women made up 26% of the computing workforce in the United States.  2% was made up of hispanic women, 3% were black women, and 5% were asian.  In 2013, women in the computing workforce earned 70 cents for every dollar a man made. In 2012, 57% of college graduates were women, yet only 12% of computer science degrees were obtained by women.  These are especially troubling numbers when you consider that women in western countries use the internet 17% more than men do, on average.

So inequality is a very real problem.  There's no arguing with that.  The point of contention, however, comes when you consider the reason why this is happening.  Why aren't women pursuing careers in computer science?

I look at the world around me or conjure memories of my childhood and can't help but notice that young women are frequently led in a different occupational direction than men.  Computer science is frequently portrayed as a man's job, whether it be in the media, in schools, or at home.  Young women just aren't being "pushed" in that direction.  Women are expected to be reserved in our society; to always be polite and always play by the rules.  This is the result of generations upon generations of patriarchy.  We all have an idea in our heads of what a "typical" computer scientist should look like.  Our society assigns masculinity to the job.  I can't help but think this is because computer science is difficult and in a patriarchal society, difficult things are left to men.  I implore you to break out of this line of thinking now.

The cultural indocrination of gender roles into children is unfortunate for many reasons.  Obviously, because it implies that the problem will take a full generation to fix.  Less obviously, because tech companies run by women, or who employ majority women, have been wildly succesful!  Women make great computer programmers and even better CEOs in the tech world.  We just don't associate the two things because we've been taught to think otherwise.  Dow Jones did a study of tech companies over the past 17 years and showed that 7.1% of successful companies were headed by female executives, while only 3.1% of unsuccessful companies were run by women.

Women and young girls should be applauded for pragmaticism, technical skill, and leadership, just as much as men are today.  More so, we should all be applauded for empathy, compassion, and altruism.  When a young girl shows interest in technology she should be revered as a beautiful, strong, candidate for the tech companies of the future and she should be encouraged to pursue her passion unapologetically and without reserve.  If we do this, hopefully we can one day shift society's expectations of what a "typical" computer scientist is supposed to look like.

So what about the money?  It would be easy to say that women make 70% less than men because of sexism or mysogyny.  In many cases this is, no doubt, true.  But it's only one part of the problem.  A recent study at the University of Texas showed that women, on average, asked for $7,000 less than their male counterparts.  What's even more interesting about the UT study is that when asked to negotiate salary on behalf of a coworker, women and men asked for almost exactly the same amounts, regardless of the gender of the other party.  I can't help but think this is learned behavior and the direct result of patriarchy and male privilege.  We can change this in a generation or less, people!  I think more skills training on negotiation tactics for women in the workplace is a great place to start. But it's going to take everybody getting on board and men need to examine their roles in this problem and fix them too.  We need a long term, universal solution.  Not a bandaid.

As a feminist, this is an issue that I've followed pretty closely for some time now.  I don't have any concrete answers, but I do know the problems that face us.  I think that's a great place to start.  I hope that future generations will feel comfortable transcending the barriers of gender roles in our society and stay true to themselves.  I know I have, and in many ways, my feminity has saved my life.  I'd like to see a world where more men realize this and fields like the tech sector lose their aggressive, male-dominated ethos.

I was originally going to write this blog on net neutrality because it's another issue I've followed closely and it seemed like a safer choice. I also wasn't sure I could do this issue justice without writing a thousand-page manifesto.  I haven't done it justice, honestly.  I'm leaving so much unsaid for the sake of brevity.  Hopefully in the future I'll have a chance to meet with more people who have been directly affected by this issue and convey my ideas more exhaustively, in person.  Until then, I'll just leave it at this.

I didn't ask for male privilege but at this point, I have it.  The best I can do is be aware of it, never try to exploit it, and take every chance given to dismantle it from the inside out.  It saddens me deeply that more people don't feel the same way.

Thank you for taking the time to read this!
